# Transaction fees

Transaction fees are paid for performing actions on the blockchain. It's calculated based on the amount of work done to perform the transaction and a specified gas price. The amount of work is calculated through `gas` units, every modification in the store adds some gas required to perform the transaction. When the user submits a new transaction, they specify two of three parameters: `fees`, `gas`, `gas_price`. The third one can be inferred from the other two by the equation: `fees` = `gas` * `gas_price`.

The user is billed for the gas amount they specify, even if the actual gas used is less. What is followed currently in the cosmos ecosystem, is to perform a simulation of the transaction to calculate the to-be-used gas amount and multiply it by `1.3` as an error margin. If the gas provided is less than the used, the user will be billed and the transaction will fail.

The gas price is a parameter specified by each validator and not a parameter of the chain. The validator rejects the transaction and doesn't push it in the transaction mempool (the stage before going through the consensus process until it's executed), if the gas is less than the `min-gas-price` specified by the validator. In cosmos, for instance, the `min-gas-price` is recommended to be .025uatom in `joining mainnet guide`.

Fees are deducted from the account of the user performing the transaction and distributed according to rules imposed by the distribution module. A `community_tax` proportion is sent to the community pool, its default value is 2%. The money in the community pool can be transfered by issueing a governance proposal. The proposers receive a proportion based on `base_proposer_reward`. Additional part is paid based on the ratio of the power of validators with valid precommits (>2/3 <= 1) to the total power of the validators, this ratio is then multiplied by `bonus_proposer_reward`. The remainder is distributed proportionally by voting power to all bonded validators.
